Service Desk Roles and Responsibilities


Who's Who on the Service Desk? 

Service desks can be places where people get help, but that help can come in many facets, whether that is direct 'front-of-house' support from the service desk ,or 'back-of-house' support for solutions like Salesforce, SharePoint Online, SAP, etc. 

It's also about quickly ensuring the customer gets their request resolved in the most timely manner, and knowing who to go to is essential.


Different roles on a typical service desk

I.T. Manager
The Captain of the ship, the I.T. manager is the final point of escalation for non-technical issues and determining team strategy. 
They also should be escalated to when there are issues with end users not responding to requests from the team.


Systems Administrator
A systems administration team are the custodians of the infrastructure for the business, and they ensure the continuation of service.
Systems Administrators are  good technical resources, however,  you should cover all bases prior to engaging them.


Service Desk Analyst
The Service Desk Analyst is the hands and the face of the IT Department. 
All requests get routed through the Service Desk, the analyst prioritises and triages the requests, passed to the appropriate team for actioning and resolving the remaining requests.


Technical Lead / Senior Service Desk Analyst
The Technical Lead is often a Tier 2 or 3 technician whose role is to provide a source of escalation between the Service Desk Analyst and the Systems Administration team.
Some businesses will refer to this with a Senior designation (e.g. Senior Service Desk Analyst)



Business Support Specialist
This team performs the resolution of issues of back of house solutions (SAP, Salesforce, SharePoint, etc.) 
They are not generally front facing staff however will contact customers in relation to requests received.



What Kind of Things Will I Do?

Daily, you can expect to see some if not all of the following items 

- User creation/deactivation
- Asset management and tracking
- Resolving incidents presented to the desk
- Communication with the business concerning issues/updates.

Alongside these tasks, you will do additional items as assigned by the IT Manager or at the request of the System Administrators. 