What is a Service Desk Analyst

First Point of Contact

Regardless of what role they hold in the business, they will at some point or another come to the Service Desk for assistance and support. 

Users will expect their Service Desk Analyst to remain professional in their dealings, even when the situations are frustrating and complicated. While this can be sometimes a difficult thing to accomplish, there are tools that are at your disposal to help you better manage customer expectations and ensure a high level of support for your customers.


Face of the I.T. Department

As the service desk is the first location that staff turn to before they go anywhere else for technical guidence, most people see the Service Desk Analysts as the face of the IT department.

This can be both a positive and a potentially negative thing as when someone has a poor experience with the Service Desk, this can result in them reviewing the whole department in a poor light. This is why it is absolutely essential to provide the best service possible to your end users.


Primary Duties of a Service Desk Analyst

On a daily basis, you can expect to see some if not all of the following items 
- User creation/deactivation.
- Asset management and tracking.
- Resolving incidents presented to the desk.
- Communication with the business in relation to issues / updates.

Alongside these tasks you will do additional items as assigned by the IT Manager or at the request of the System Administrators. 


Summary

The biggest thing to remember about being a Service Desk Analyst is that you aren't expected to have every answer to every question that comes across your desk. The end user will understand that you require to research the issues that you haven't been exposed to currently.

Delivering exceptional service will be a good thing to ensure you are delivering the best support to the business possible. This ensures that the people who need to be getting the big things done are able to without interruption.