Service Level Agreements (SLAs)

IT Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are contracts that define the level of service expected between an IT service provider and its clients.

They outline the agreed-upon metrics, responsibilities, and expectations for the IT services provided, including availability, performance, and response time. 


Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are the service desk's expectations on handling their tickets. Multiple types of SLAs can exist based on the ticket but also the department as a whole.

These expectations are set to allow a minimum level of service that the company can rely on for multiple sections of the ticketing process. SLAs will also keep an IT department accountable for ensuring they hold a high service level at all times.


Response SLA
Time to respond (commonly known as the Response SLA) is a measure of duration between when a request is initially submitted to the service desk ITSM system and when contact is made back to the customer.

Most ITSM solutions require this contact by email as adding a note doesn't equate to "Contact".


Resolution SLA
Time to resolve (commonly known as the Resolution SLA) is a measure of duration between when a request is initially submitted to the service desk ITSM system and when the ticket is successfully marked resolved by the technician. 

In the event that the end user is not satisfied with the resolution and reopens the ticket, this timer will continue from when the request was marked resolved.


Availability SLA / Uptime
Availability of service (also refers to Uptime) measures the targeted availability levels measured in the Production environment, as specified in the SaaS Listing which may vary according to each SaaS Offering and its component capabilities. 


Failing to meet SLAs

Depending on the style of the service desk that you are working for will depend on the outcome of failed SLAs. Failure to meet the requirements in the SLA can be either financial or just disciplinary actions taken.

Ensure your SLAs are realistic to minimise the chance of failure on SLAs. Also, remember that SLAs are a two-way street. Your customer may want strict SLAs, but they are wasted exercise and energy if the business cannot deliver them due to either limited personnel or resources.

While this may not significantly impact you as a Service Desk Analyst, it could be from a team level, so ensure you are keeping your escalation points aware of issues fitting with any SLAs when this occurs.



While SLAs are managed by IT Managers, it is your responsibility to understand SLAs and how they can impact your team when either created well or supported poorly.

SLAs can have a financial impact when / if you are working for a Managed Service Provider (MSP).

Ensure that SLAs are achievable and you are not setting yourselves up for failure.

Have separate SLAs for Response, Resolution and Availability.