Frustrated and Angry Customers


Why Customers Become Frustrated or Angry

Poor customer service
One of the most common reasons for customer frustration is poor customer service. 
This can include long wait times, unresponsive representatives, or unhelpful advice.


Unmet expectations
If a customer's expectations are not met, they may become frustrated or angry.
This could be because of a product or service that doesn't meet their needs or doesn't live up to advertising claims.


Technical issues
Technical issues with products or services can also cause frustration for customers.
For example, if a website is slow or crashes frequently, customers may become frustrated and lose patience.


Lack of communication
When customers feel like they are not being kept informed about the status of their order or issue, they can become frustrated and angry.


Inconvenience
If a customer has to go out of their way or experience an inconvenience to resolve an issue or obtain a product or service, they may become frustrated or angry.



Overview

In an enterprise environment, you'll see a lot less angry customers and more just pure frustrated customers as they are trying to get something done and system issues are causing there an inability to deliver this. 

In a public-facing environment, you will see more angry customers mixed in with this.

Either way, a frustrated or angry customer is coming to you as you are as they are having an issue that they see that you can resolve. The most important part is that you don't come across as dismissive or unwilling to help. 

You should also take the time to listen to exactly what the issue is. It may be something as simple as they don't know how to do something. But it could also be something more substantial where there is actually a fault that is causing their inability to perform the function in which they're trying to do that is losing this frustration.

If you take the time and exhibit patience with the customer this will pay off in dividends at the end of the call.

Ensuring that you're using correct mute and hold processes during a frustrating call as well ensures that the customer doesn't feel that you don't care.

The majority of customers won't be frustrated and angry with you on the end of the line, but instead will be angry with the situation they are currently in. 

This also can include things that are outside the realms of the call that the call is just exacerbating.

Listen closely and attempt to resolve the issue calmly and show additional patience with these users. 

Show you are doing everything that you can for them.


Summary

- Never allow an angry customer to ruin your day. Remember to take deep breaths and use your escalation paths if a customer becomes overbearing.

- Also, remember the other tips in this process.

- Allow the customer to express where the frustration lies, as it may be something that you can assist with. This will result in a calmer customer experience and a more appreciative customer at the end.

- Never take what the customer says personally; they are frustrated at a situation.

- If you ever feel uncomfortable, escalate the issue.